---
title: In the middle of nowhere, or lava-tubes
excerpt: We went looking for quiet, and heat...
date: 2014-11-14
tags:
  - personal
  - oz14
---

Since last I told about getting our car and all the first big stop was going to be near
Gloucester (New South Wales, Australia) at the Gloucester Tops Camping ground. And
although we saw a big snake, some Kangeroos, Wallabees, various unknown bird-types and
quite notably, *a Turkey*! We decided not to stay up there and keep heading inland.
Wherever we ended up spending the night I don't recall, must've been rather boring after
all of that... Oh, I almost forgot, while up in the national park we also went on a short
hike to see some waterfalls, which turned out to be more of a mild cascade. This park also
was the first bit of more serious gravel roads and while not yet needed the 4wd
capabilities, the Pajero didn't break a sweat. She did use a little more fuel than our
normal average.

So, when last I made an update I spoke about getting our car and finding some nice little
campgrounds in national parks. Since then the most notable thing we still managed to see
around the coast was the Trial Bay Gaol (pronounce as jail... apparently this is the real
'english' spelling for jail...). Just before this we also enjoyed a beautiful beach
sunset in bongil bongil (or something alone those lines) National Park.Somewhere along the
lines we even drove through a region that, if not for the heat, could have been Holland.
A meandering canal with grassy slopes and a road on the side. Cows in the fields and some
trees scattered across a wide flat area. Some farms hidden around the bends in the roads
to finish it up. All we were missing were the countless church-towers you would've have
seen in the 'polder'.

At this point in time, more or less, Sandra proprosed a new plan. Since Sandra was having
a cold (imagine that in 35 degrees), diving wasn't an option. As the water had no time
yet to properly heat up, and the wind made you feel like it was 10 degrees when whet, the
new plan was getting the hell to Cairns via the great inland road. This would give Sandra
time to get rid of her cold, the ocean time to heat up and as a bonus would leave us
moving back towards Sydney within a few weeks, essentially making it likely that we'll
have some time to sell our car before leaving.

## The Gwydir Highway

We left the coast headed in the general directions of 'St George'!! Such a cool
destination. For those of you who don't know me so well, or missed out on some important
history lessons. I love Dragons!!! And St. George is probably the only guy that is known,
by name, to have killed a dragon. Now, before we get there, there's some 600km orso of
highway to traverse. Not that far then ;)

What came next was as unexpected as it was fun and entertaining. We drove into Glen Innes
and came to be informed that we were now on the Gwydir Highway, a gaelic community intend
on preserving their Scottish and Irish backgrounds. This started of with a well-built and
architected ring of standing stones. In these stones many a symbol was hidden among which,
the trinity, northern star, cross of jesus-christ, the winter solstice and the summer
solstice. Beautiful and unexpected, but that's the kind of gem you hope to run into when
going of the beaten path.

As the roads quieted down, the landscape became more open and the heat went of, this is
the Australia Sandra and I had known so well. Sure, we came this way for the east coast,
but we'd come back to that later, first let's calm down in the quiet rural, disconnected
parts of Australia. As dusk was drawing near we started looking for a camp-ground, for
which we picked up an app on the advice of some fellow travellers. And although we were
making our way towards some free camping, we instead took a turn of the highway towards
a Nature Reserve (not to be mistaken by a national park) which had a proper camp-ground.
Cranky Rock camping turned out to be a little slice of paradise.

More importantly, it had some really nice caretakers, a good shower and plenty of
wild-life. Some of them were caged up, most noticeably the cockatoos. However, the roo's
were not caged up at all. One of them was still a young lass and the other an old granny
who had probably only managed to survive by getting some of the food of of the caretakers.
After a good nights sleep another short hike, a good chat with the caretakers and some
cute pictures of the local wild-life. We had to move on, Carnarvon National park being our
aim.

## Carnarvon National Park

St. George was certainly milking their name and had plenty of references to the mythical
dragon-slayer. We picked up some information from the information office, picked up some
'dragon sauce' and quickly moved on. Unfortunately this was where we found out that there
wasn't to be any camping in the Carnarvon National Park, nearby options looking overpriced
we decided to fall back on our app [WikiCamps AU][I] and found ourselves a cheap camp in
'Lonesome National Park'. After so much driving and having found such a nicely remote spot
we decided to spend a day just reading books and hanging around in the shades of the
trees.

The next day we decided to set of early to get to Carnarvon Gorge in the early morning and
start on the track while it was nice and cool. Which we did. We started the track around
8:30 after already driving roughly 100km, the bonus of living in a car and tent is that
you tend to wake up at sun-rise. We decided to walk all the way out to 'the big bend'
which was a measly 9.7km one-way, on a well-prepared bush-path. This posed no problem in
the morning, while it was still cool and as such we made it out there in about 2 and a
half hours. However, by this time, I was definitely starting to feel tired and the hot
part of the day was yet to fully set in. Suffice to say, the way back was an experience! I
can still recall with clarity the effort of making it through the last 2 kilometers with
no water left, 40+ degrees and totally exhausted. Next time, when considering taking a
daypack with me for some extra food and water, do it....

All of that hard-ship aside, the gorge was still as beautiful as I remember it from '99.
The place is almost like nature's attempt at making a botanical garden. Every bend of the
gorge drastically altering the plant-life around you. From walking through a grove of
Eucalyptus trees, on to tall grass, a short pine-needle brush forrest, back to a grove of
yet different trees and everything in between. All the while crossing back and across the
river running through the gorge by carefully choosing your way across the stepping stones.
It's a magical place and hopefully will forever resist the taint of humanity.

## Where we got ourselves today

Since I don't want to steer you away from dreaming of paradise, all I'll say is that we
continued on north. In between where we walked through the gorge and where we are today
I had a swim at Theresa Creek Dam, we had the help of the loveliest mum at the Charles
Tower Information Centre, who's son had studied in Leeuwarden for a while. And after
walking through the historical sites of 'The World' we made our way to 'Undara National
Park', where we saw the sun set from the rim of an old vulcano and will today walk the
lava-tubes with a guide. Until next time, when I will tell you more of this!

[I]: http://www.wikicamps.com.au/
