---
title: The far North
excerpt: How we made it as far as it was comfortable to go...
date: 2014-11-18
tags:
    - oz14
    - travel
    - personal
---

After a little internet time I added a shot from within the lava-tubes towards the exit.
That may give you an inkling of what we'd seen there. The experience at Undara was
certainly a highlight of our trip so far. At the park we've seen lots of 'macro-pods' and
a beautiful sunset from the rim of an old volcano.

## The drive north

After the vulcanic park we made our way towards the tablelands. We found ourselves another
nice place to sleep and made ready to go around the tablelands looking for / at plenty of
waterfalls.

[![Tropic dark falls][imgI]][I]

Amazingly enough the day went by quickly and although it was one of the days where we
drove only a little, it did feel like we'd never done as much before. Don't expect me to
go of raving about the huge, stunning longest waterfall known to man, that's not what we'd
seen that day. Most of the waterfalls were quite beautiful though. Tucked away in the last
pieces of rain-forrest that's still clinging on for dear life in this part of Australia.

Little winding roads took us through the grassy fields with some cattle scattered around.
Shaded walks through old rain-forrest gave us glimpses of flowing water only to finally
open up and give us great views of the waterfalls. Some properties were actually for sale
and made us meander about a house tucked away in a patch of rain-forrest to spend the cold
winters outside of Europe. Dreaming is fun and easy in such a nice environment!

## Interesting nights

After all of that we made our way to a close by free camping area. We'd been told it was
'across from the hotel'. And boy was it across from the hotel! We drove into another tiny
town, probably some 20 houses tucked together, with a reasonably big hotel on the
main-street. On the other side a nice shaded park allowed for 24 hours of camping and even
with a free (though cold) shower. Now with the word hotel, realise in places like these
that means a pub with accommodation on the second floor...

After both having taken a quick shower, Sandra made first contact with a local across the
street and so we ended up having a long chat with him. Some 3 bundi and cokes later,
Sandra had had enough and found a polite way to make for bed. Another shot of rum later
and having met some more of the locals inside I also stumbled my way back to the tent.

That would've made for a good ending but since some german backpackers had taken
possession of the picknick bench right next to the car and I struck up a conversation,
Sandra also came back out and we chatted away into the evening. And although at some point
we did make it back into bed, the night was far from over. Apparently the local farming
backpackers had managed to make some interesting drama happen, of which most of what we
picked up was summed up in repetitive uttering of 'Fuck, fucking fuckfuck germans' and
'Abbey, abbey, abbey!!'. Apparently, so we found out the next morning, Abbey's boyfriend
had slept around with a german girl.

## Some waterfalls later

Although we were still in the tablelands the waterfalls we went of to see the next day both
turned out to be in the more dry and arid eucalyptus forrests. And mostly used for their
swimming holes by locals trying to get out of the heat. It seems it was time to move on
and thats what we did.

While driving up we found more vegetation, although again the more arid eucalyptus kind
and it became apparent there was less and less people living in this area. The stunning
black mountain that was going to break up the landscape was a little disappointing, but
certainly strange... And so we drove onwards and made it to Cooktown. Further north is
possible but requires more planning, spare parts and 4 wheel driving experience.

[![Lighthouse and Car][imgII]][II]

Cooktown, to be fair, is a really lovely town. It's also in a beautiful place. Perhaps if
we had arrived on a day when the information center was open, we'd have found ourselves
spending more time here. As it was though, we'd taken a lovely walk through the botanic
gardens and from there through the forrest onto the beach. From there we swung back onto a
road leading us back to our car. Oh we'd also had a drive down to the wharf before this.
We finished of our Cooktown experience with sunset at the lighthouse. A stunning view of
the surrounding area to be sure!

Not being able to fathom a way to surpass what we'd already seen, we made our way out of
town and found a place to spend the night so we'd be able to drive to Port Douglass
refreshed and without hitting any of the local wild-life. The next morning we must have
seen at least 50 kangaroos and wallabies while driving. We made it to Port Douglass
without anything of note happening and that's where we find ourselves today! Next up, our
first dive down to the reef!

[I]: https://www.flickr.com/photos/windgazer/15631075830
[imgI]: https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7546/15631075830_3b6169cea8_z.jpg
[II]: https://www.flickr.com/photos/windgazer/15792286066
[imgII]: https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7523/15792286066_a50b6b0b3b_z.jpg
